a lot of marketers talk about ad fatigue
like if it was the boogeyman something
that they are scared of and the reality
is is behind every successful campaign
is AD fatigue the key is just being able
to know how to monitor it so that way
you can stay ahead of it I'm Silvio
Perez and in today's video I'm going to
teach you how to get a handle on ad
fatigue once and for all let's get into
it so what is AD fatigue and how can you
stay ahead of it now ad fatigue happens
when the same member of your target
audience has seen the same variation of
your ad where they start to develop what
is known as Banner blindness this is
when the same person saw your ad that
you've been running for three to six
months and you haven't changed anything
about it and they're just tuning it out
on a subconscious level now this is
really bad for you as an Advertiser on
multiple fronts the first one being is
because they're no longer engaging with
your ad you're going to have a lower
quality score or relevancy score meaning
the auctions that you participate in
you're going to be paying higher cost
per clicks or higher CPM prices is
versus your competitors because all
these social based advertising platforms
have some sort of quality score
component where they take into
consideration the expected click-through
rate the amount of reactions so likes
comments and shares and if people are
just tuning out your ad and they're not
engaging the auctions will see that and
they will force you to pay more premium
inventory costs in order to show your
ads because you're creating a bad
experience now the other reason this is
really bad for you is if you keep this
up long enough you have the opportunity
to create brand damage and create a
negative association so if you're
showing the same ad for three to six
months and people are obviously not
interested eventually they're going to
leave some nasty comments on your ad
letting you know how much they don't
appreciate it so we want to go ahead and
stay ahead of AD fatigue and prevent it
from even ever even getting close to
that state by monitoring some key
metrics the first metric you're going to
want to monitor is your click-through
rate your click-through rate will tell
you how often are people engaging with
your your ads the second metric is your
frequency how often has the same person
seen your ad within your target audience
and then finally if it's applicable
depending on what you're promoting is
your conversion rates and your
conversion rates are going to tell you
how often are people taking the action
that you're trying to get them to take
with your ad so how often are they
taking that offer now the thing I love
about running paid advertising is you
don't really have to guess your metrics
in your account all the data in your
account is telling you a story and it's
your job as an Advertiser to be able to
interpret the story to read these
metrics to understand what it is it's
telling you so when it comes to ad
fatigue if you notice week over week
your click-through rate is decreasing
and your frequency is increasing and of
course by default because you're getting
less clicks your conversion rates will
start to drop off as well and your total
volume of conversions then that's
usually a sign of AD fatigue now as far
as what is an acceptable free frequency
everybody has a different opinion here
for me and my experience with my clients
I usually tend to try to keep a
frequency of no greater than four as my
general rule of thumb now some really
important things I want to mention about
frequency is number one how soon you
rack up that frequency is dependent on
your audience size smaller audience it's
going to be much quicker for you able to
saturate that audience and rack up a
higher frequency larger audience it's
going to take you a lot longer for
multiple people within the same audience
to see your ad multiple times so just
keep that into consideration and then
one last thing on frequency is frequency
is a leading indicator it's not the only
thing you need to make your decision on
of of whether or not you're going to
pause something or you're going to scale
something a lot of advertisers will
freak out if they have a frequency of
six but their ad is doing amazing and
nobody is leaving bad comments and the
engagement is increasing over time you
want to use frequency as one data point
to make an overall informed decision on
if you are going to optimize or scale
your ad so do not react emotionally to
high frequency counts so let it be a
leading indicator but again you are in
control here leverage that as one data
point and then make a holistic decision
so just to recap try to keep a frequency
I would say of no more than four as a
general rule of thumb if you do have an
ad that has a high frequency but it's
performing well for you let it run don't
pause it obviously be mindful keep make
sure you're checking week over week if
that click-through rate is staying High
and the conversion rates are staying
strong but start to test new creative in
parallel so as that ad starts to
diminish in performance and fatigue
starts to set in you already have new
creative ready to go and testing in
parallel so you can pause that old ad
eventually and replace it with the new
one I wanted to take a second and show
you really quickly how you can find
these different frequency metrics in
your account so for LinkedIn as an
example if you go into your campaign
manager and you click on columns and you
change it to delivery this is the preset
template that they have that will pull
in automatically reach frequency CPM CTR
all the primary metrics that you need to
see to monitor ad fatigue and the same
is true for most platforms they'll
usually have this as a preset name
that's pretty standard delivery same
thing with Facebook and from here you
can see the average frequency for your
different ads so looking at this account
you can see that this first creative has
average frequency of 23.81 the second
one 22 the third one is three so I see
23 and I see 22 and that's an extremely
high number so that already raises a
concern for me on this ad and and the
possibility of AD fatigue because that's
that means that on average one person
has seen this ad 23 times which is a
little bit insane so
now I'm going to dig in a little bit
deeper and I'm going to look at the
performance trend of this ad and see
over time has performance been declining
my assumption is probably yes because 23
is pretty insane but I'm not going to
use the frequency of 23 alone to dictate
my decision on whether I keep this ad
running or not so I'm going to look at
the performance Trends I'm going to look
at the comments on the ads I'm going to
look at the interaction the engagement
and use all those additional data points
to make my collective decision on do we
pause this ad
or do we let it keep running
on Facebook the same is true if you go
into Facebook and you go to the column
section here and you switch it to
delivery it'll pull all those different
metrics for you as well so reach
frequency CPM CTR so on and so forth so
I just wanted to show you this so you
can access that information but the same
is true for most platforms look for the
delivery column if they don't have that
you can always just customize your
columns and then go ahead and pull in
those metrics that you need I just
wanted to take a second and say I hope
you're finding this video valuable if
you are and you can give it a thumbs up
that'll help me out a ton and if you
know anybody that would benefit from
this type of content then please go
ahead and share I create these videos
for free for you guys so helping getting
the word out is tremendously helpful and
if you want more B2B advertising content
then go ahead and check out
adconversion.com and join 1000 plus B2B
marketers in the AC conversion
newsletter where you're going to get
sent two to three actionable tips on
paid ads every single week with that
let's get back into the video now that
you understand what metrics to monitor
to see if ad fatigue is actually
happening to you let's talk about four
tips to help you prevent it in the first
place tip number one is to refresh your
creative on a monthly basis most B2B
marketers fall into the Trap of AD
fatigue outside of because they just
don't understand what to look at but
because they just don't refresh their
creative often enough and these paid
social channels are hungry for creative
and depending on your audience size and
if you're doing account based marketing
or you're targeting very very specific
personas and you have smaller audience
sizes then you better believe that
creative demands required are going to
be much greater because that audience is
going to get saturated much quicker so
you want to refresh your creative on a
monthly basis this is something that
ideally you plan for ahead of time it's
something that you should just put on
your calendar and you should be having
alignment with your designers or your
video editors and you should be planning
your advertising creatives ahead of time
just like you would if you had a YouTube
channel you're going to plan your videos
ahead of time you're going to film that
content you're going to get it edited
cut up all that stuff so that way it can
get published on your upload dates the
same should be true for your ad creative
and give it that same thought process
and attention and treat it like if it
was a YouTube channel but in this case
it's just helping you produce let's say
image ads or Carousel ads or maybe video
ads if you're able to produce that as
well but you're planning ahead of time
and it's not just something that you're
leaving for the last minute where hey oh
my God I have ad fatigue you start to
freak out and then you push these like
half-baked ads that you haven't really
thought through very poorly designed and
obviously they're not going to really
drive a significant result for you in
terms of performance so you want to
avoid that and get in the habit of
refreshing your creative on a monthly
basis tip number two is to set frequency
caps frequency caps allow you to limit
the amount of times the same user in
your target audience sees your ad now
please hear me when I say this nobody
likes to see the same ad on repeat quick
story I'll go to like family functions
and things like this and people will say
oh you work in marketing and advertising
I hate YouTube ads I hate ads I hate you
know all these ads that are are always
bombarding me and I'm not interested and
you know my response is is me too I hate
ads like that as well I hate seeing the
same ad when I don't want to see it
because I just saw it 10 minutes ago and
they're already showing it to me again
um it's a terrible experience so
remember nobody wants to see ads on
repeat and you're going to burn your
audience if you do this and most
advertisers they don't set frequency
caps and they give the consumers this
horrible experience and they have
essentially spoiled the barrel so to
speak for the rest of us where now
everybody when they think of marketing
and advertising they think of annoying
ads and pushing things on people that
they're not interested in when the
reality is is we're here to show things
that are amazing to a very specific
group of people that are relevant to
that group of people and then we're also
going to limit the amount of times that
we present that message to that person
so that way we can stay top of mind for
them and set a frequency cap but we're
not beating them ahead beating them you
know over the head with it multiple
times within the same day it's just it's
a little bit crazy rant over
is what is a good frequency cap to set
my general rule of thumb when I want to
play it safe is one ad every 48 hours so
serving one ad impression every 48 Hours
LinkedIn doesn't allow you to set
frequency caps currently and this is the
default that they set and I think it's a
pretty good safe bet and a general rule
of thumb that you can apply across
channels now if you need to be a little
bit more aggressive because maybe you
have an event coming up and there's a
very fixed window on when you can get
the word out then I would probably do
one ad every 24 hours one ad impression
but you just got to be careful where if
you only have one variation of creative
and you're letting that one variation of
creative run for multiple times within
the same day that is going to cause a
bad experience so if you have multiple
variations of creative remember that
this frequency cap is being applied at
the creative level so if you have five
variations of creative and you're saying
that each variation can run once per day
that's five ads that they're eligible to
see within the same day a so you can see
how quickly frequency caps and the
distribution of your ads can get out of
control so just be mindful of that and
as a general rule of thumb one ad every
48 hours and then just keep an eye on
engagement and reactions and of course
click-through rate conversion rates
frequency all the things we talked about
just to stay ahead of AD fatigue the
next tip is to exclude form completions
people who engage with your ad and they
converted they should no longer be
seeing your ads and I can't tell you how
many accounts that I've audited where
they're still showing ads to people that
have already converted so this is a
really easy win for you you can just
create an audience of people that took
that action so if they feel that a
certain lead gen form or they filled out
a form on your website they went to a
thank you page create that exclusion
audience and make sure you're excluding
it from your campaigns so that way as
soon as that person takes that action
they're no longer eligible to see that
ad all right so the fourth and final tip
is to set alerts for frequency now some
ad platforms have automated rules of
available where they let you to set up
automated rules based on frequency so
you can set up an automated rule on
Facebook for example where if the
frequency is greater than four you're
going to get sent an email alerting you
leveraging frequency alerts when
possible is another way to stay
proactive and to make sure that ad
fatigue never happens because you're a
busy person right if you're a B2B
marketer maybe you're a dimension
manager watching this you're a
Performance Marketing Manager you're
doing a lot of things you're managing
channels across campaigns maybe you're
helping on the organic side of things
you're busy person so if you can get
these alerts to you sent for you outside
of the ads manager that's going to help
save time so that you don't have to be
logging into Facebook every single hour
worrying about your frequency set up an
automated alert if you can and then keep
it top of mind when you need to see that
I hope this video was valuable and you
feel empowered now and you no longer see
ad fatigue as this scary Boogeyman that
you need to be worried about and you're
not really sure if it's happening or
when it's going to happen now you have
the metrics to monitor to know if it's
happening to you and then you also have
these actionable tips that you can
Implement to make sure that you stay
ahead of it for good if you can give
this video a thumbs up if you got a
tremendous amount of value that would
help me out a ton if you like content
like this then beat a shirt to subscribe
for future uploads and if you want more
B2B advertising content then I highly
recommend that you join 1000 plus B2B
marketers over at adconversion.com and
join my newsletter where you're going to
get sent two to three actionable tips
every single week thank you so much for
watching I'll see you in the next video
take care